nginx\_dissite, nginx\_ensite -- enable/disable an nginx site/virtual host
==========================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nginx_ensite` [ <site> ]...<br>
`nginx_dissite` [ <site> ]...<br>

## DESCRIPTION

This manual page documents briefly the nginx\_ensite
and nginx\_dissite commands. 

nginx\_ensite is a script that **enables** the specified site which is included in a
http block within the nginx configuration.  It does this by creating
symlinks within `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled`.

Likewise, nginx\_dissite disables a site by removing those
symlinks. It is not an error to enable a site which is already
enabled, or to disable one which is already disabled.  

The default site is handled specially: the resulting symlink will be
called `000-default` in order to be listed first. Note that listing
&mdash; as done by `ls` &mdash; orders the files
lexicographically. Nginx loads the files by the OS provided order. To
make sure a specific server configuration is loaded first specify the
`default_server` parameter on the
[`listen`](http://wiki.nginx.org/HttpCoreModule#listen) directive of
that server configuration.

## EXAMPLES

Enable the default site:

    nginx_ensite default

Disable the default site:

    nginx_dissite default

Enable the example.org site:

    nginx_ensite example.org    
    
## FILES 

`/etc/nginx/sites-available` <br>
Directory with files providing information on available sites.

`/etc/nginx/sites-enabled` <br>
Directory with links to the files in `sites-available` for enabled sites. 

## SEE ALSO

a2ensite(8), a2dissite(8), nginx(1)

## COPYRIGHT

nginx_ensite is Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Antonio P. P. Almeida
\<appa@perusio.net\> under the terms of a MIT license.

## AVAILABILITY

The latest version of nginx_ensite is available from: 
[https://github.com/perusio/nginx_ensite](https://github.com/perusio/nginx_ensite).

## AUTHOR

nginx_ensite was written by Antonio P. P. Almeida \<appa@perusio.net\>
that also wrote the manual page based on the `a2ensite` manual page by
Stefan Fritsch \<sf@debian.org\> for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution.

