.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH NGINX_ENSITE 8 "31 August 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.AM
.SH NAME
nginx_ensite, nginx_dissite \- enable or disable an nginx site / virtual host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nginx_ensite
.RI [ site ]
.PP
.B nginx_dissite
.RI [ site ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B nginx_ensite
and
.B nginx_dissite
commands.
.PP
.B nginx_ensite
is a script that enables the specified site which is included in a
http block within the
.B nginx
configuration.  It does this by creating symlinks within
.BR /etc/nginx/sites-enabled .
Likewise,
.B nginx_dissite
disables a site by removing those symlinks.  It is not an error to
enable a site which is already enabled, or to disable one which is
already disabled.
.PP
The
.B default
site is handled specially: The resulting symlink will be called
.B 000-default
in order to be loaded first.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.B "nginx_dissite default"
.RE
.PP
Disables the
.B default
site.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/nginx/sites-available
Directory with files giving information on available sites.
.TP
.B /etc/nginx/sites-enabled
Directory with links to the files in
.B sites-available
for enabled sites.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Ant\['o]nio Almeida <appa@perusio.net>
(based on the a2ensite manual
page by Stefan Fritsch <sf@debian.org>) for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution.
