# nginx_ensite and nginx_dissite for quick virtual host enabling and disabling

## Description

This is a shell (Bash) script that replicates for
[nginx](http://wiki.nginx.org) the [Debian](http://debian.org)
`a2ensite` and `a2dissite` for enabling and disabling sites as virtual
hosts in Apache 2.2.

The original `a2ensite` and `a2dissite` is written in
Perl. `a2dissite` is a symbolic link to `a2ensite`. Here I followed
the same approach, i.e., `nginx_dissite` is a symbolic link to
`nginx_ensite`.

## Installation 

Just drop the script and the symbolic link in `/usr/sbin` or other
location appropriate for your system. Meaning: `cp nginx_* /usr/sbin`.
That's it you're done. 

Note that the script assumes a specific file system topology for your
`nginx` configuration. Here's the rundown:

 1. All virtual hosts configuration files should be under
    `/etc/nginx/sites-available`. For example the virtual host `foobar`
    is configured through a file in `/etc/nginx/sites-available`.

 2. After running the script with `foobar` as argument: `nginx_ensite
    foobar`. A symbolic link `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/foobar ->
    /etc/nginx/sites-available/foobar` is created. Note that if the
    `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled` directory doesn't exist the script
    creates it.

 3. The script invokes `nginx -t` to test if the configuration is
    correct. If the test fails no symbolic link is created and an error
    is signaled.

 4. If everything is correct now just reload nginx, in Debian based
    systems that means invoking `/etc/init.d/nginx reload`.

 5. Now point the browser to the newly configured host and everything
    should work properly assuming your configuration is sensible.

 6. To disable the site just run `nginx_dissite foobar`. Reload nginx
    to update the running environment.

## Requirements

The script is written in Bash and uses what I believe to be some Bash
specific idioms. I never tested it in other shells. You're welcomed to
try it in any other shell. Please do tell me how it went. 

It requires also [awk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AWK). The original
`awk` (usually called BWK awk) from Bell Labs will do if you don't
have [gawk](http://www.gnu.org/software/gawk) (Gnu awk).  IN OS X and
*BSD the former is the default `awk`. The script should work in *BSD,
OS X and GNU/Linux.

## Command Completion

There's a Bash script for automatic completion of sites to be
enabled and disabled located in the `bash_completion.d` directory.

To make use of it you should:

 1. Source the script to Bash by issuing either `source
    nginx-ensite` or `. nginx-ensite`. 

 2. Now when you invoke `nginx_ensite` the sites under
    `/etc/nginx/sites-available` will appear as hypothesis for
    completion. For `nginx_dissite` you get all the sites listed in
    `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled` as possible completions.

 3. To get the completion script to be sourced upon login please
    copy it to `/etc/bash_completion.d/` or whatever location your
    shell environment uses to place all the completion
    scripts. `/etc/bash_completion.d/` is the location in Debian
    (hence also in Ubuntu) of Bash completion scripts.
      
## Manual pages

Two UNIX manual pages are included in the man directory. They should
be copied to a proper directory in your system. Something along the
lines of `/usr/share/man/man8` or `/usr/local/share/man/man8`.

Here's an [online](http://github.perusio.org/nginx_ensite/) version of
the manpage.


## Security & Trust

The script is signed with my GPG key. Just do `gpg --keyserver
keys.gpg.net --recv-keys 4D722217`. Verify by issuing `gpg --verify
nginx_ensite.sig`.

## Acknowledgments

Thanks to [xufan6](http://github.com/xufan6) for setting me on the path of the Bash completion
script.
