nginx\_dissite, nginx\_ensite -- enable/disable an nginx site/virtual host
==========================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nginx_ensite ` `-c` [ <nginx configuration directory> ] `-s` [ <startup program name> ] [ <site> ]...<br>
`nginx_dissite` `-c` [ <nginx configuration directory> ] `-s` [ <startup program name> ] [ <site> ]...<br>

## DESCRIPTION

This manual page documents briefly the nginx\_ensite
and nginx\_dissite commands. 

nginx\_ensite is a script that **enables** the specified site which is included in a
http block within the nginx configuration.  <br> qIt does this by creating
symlinks within the subdirectory `sites-enabled` of the nginx
configuration directory (default: `/etc/nginx`).

Likewise, nginx\_dissite disables a site by removing those
symlinks. It is not an error to enable a site which is already
enabled, <br> or to disable one which is already disabled.

## OPTIONS

 * `-c` <nginx configuration directory>
   Sets the nginx configuration directory to the given path (default: `/etc/nginx`).
   
 * `-s` <startup program name> 
   Sets the nginx startup program name (default: `service`). <br>
   Note that the program must be on the search path available to
   `nginx_ensite`/`nginx_dissite`. <br>If that not's the case then you
   need to pass the full path to the startup program executable. 
 
## EXAMPLES

Enable the default site:

    nginx_ensite default

Disable the default site:

    nginx_dissite default

Enable the example.org site:

    nginx_ensite example.org

Enable the image serving vhost:

    nginx_ensite -c /home/luser/api/service/image/nginx img.example.org

this corresponds to
`/home/luser/api/service/image/nginx/sites-available/img.example.org` <br>
server configuration. This file will be symlinked to
`/home/luser/api/service/image/nginx/sites-enabled/img.example.org`.

## FILES 

`/etc/nginx/sites-available` <br>
Default directory with files providing information on available sites.

`/etc/nginx/sites-enabled` <br>
Default directory with links to the files in `sites-available` for enabled sites. 

## SEE ALSO

a2ensite(8), a2dissite(8), nginx(1)

## COPYRIGHT

nginx_ensite is Copyright (C) 2010-2015 Antonio P. P. Almeida
<appa@perusio.net\> under the terms of a MIT license.

## AVAILABILITY

The latest version of nginx_ensite is available from: 
[https://github.com/perusio/nginx_ensite](https://github.com/perusio/nginx_ensite).

## AUTHOR

nginx_ensite was written by Antonio P. P. Almeida <appa@perusio.net\>
that also wrote the manual page based on the `a2ensite` manual page by
Stefan Fritsch <sf@debian.org\> for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution.

